Paper “DCAE: A dual conditional autoencoder framework for the reconstruction from EEG into image” and “DM-RE2I:A framework based on Diffusion Model for the Reconstruction from EEG to Image”, please refer to the above code.
<br><br><br>

“DCAE: A dual conditional autoencoder framework for the reconstruction from EEG into image” <br>
EEG-UNet: In downsampling, the feature vectors with length of 4096 are generated by mapping from EEG Feature vectors with length of 64 through FC layer, reshaped to 1×64×64, and sent to a 2D convolution layer to generate feature vectors in size of 64×32×32. Then the followed three ResNet blocks are used to generate three different feature vectors in sizes of 128×16×16, 256×8×8, 512×4×4, respectively, which are used to concatenate with corresponding feature vectors generated in upsampling. In upsampling,the input feature vectors in size of 512×4×4 from downsampling are firstly transformed into the feature vectors in sizes of 256×4×4 by a 2D convolutional operation, then three followed Deconvolution operations are employed to generate three feature vectors with the same sizes as those in downsampling. Finally, the feature vectors in size of 64×32×32 obtained after three deconvolution operations are reconstructed into the corresponding visualized images through the followed upsample layer with a scale of 2 and 2D convolution layer. Tanh is used as activation function after the last convolutional layer, while ReLU is employed as activation function of the other convolutional layers.

<br><br><br>
“DM-RE2I:A framework based on Diffusion Model for the Reconstruction from EEG to Image”  <br>
EG-DDPM-Network: The DDPM Network is composed of the Time&EEG embedding (TEE) part, Downsampling (DS) part, Feature reinforcement (FR) part, and Upsampling (US) part. In the TEE part, the diffusion time t through SE operation and ESF e through FC operation are fused to obtain the joint features, then these features are embedded into each ConvNeXt Block via a GELU and FC operation as represented, which is also called position embedded (PE). In the DS part, the feature of 256×8×8 is generated after 3 groups operations consisting of a ConvNeXt&Attention (CA) Block and a 2D Conv layer with a kernel size of 4, then the feature of 512×8×8 is generated by a CA Block. Each CA Block is composed of two ConvNeXt Block and a Residual self-attention (RA) Block as represented. The feature of C×H×W can be obtained (C is the number of channels for the new feature) after the C×H×W feature enter the CA Block. For example, when a 256×8×8 feature enters the CA Block, and the 512×8×8 feature is obtained after the first ConvNeXt Block, and then the 512×8×8 feature is output through a ConvNeXt Block and RA Block. In the FR part, the 512×8×8 feature is sequentially passed through ConvNeXt Block, an RA Block, and a ConvNeXt Block to obtain a 512×8×8 feature. In the US part, the input feature is concatenated with the feature of the same size as the downsampling part, and then upsampled by a ConvNeXt Block and a 2D DeConv layer with a kernel size of 4. After three upsamplings, a 64×64×64 feature is obtained. Based on which, this study then employs a ConvNeXt Block and a 2D Conv layer with a kernel size of 1 to calculate the output ϵθ(xt,t,e) of the DDPM Network.
